final_project_TabassumKazi.md, before:

# Part I

## Project Outline
**High-level Summary:** My final presentation will highlight the status of animal shelters, euthanasia statistics, and the importance of animal adoption from shelters. I hope to appeal to people, not only to adopt from animal shelters, but also to consider donating to causes that allow shelters to run and allow animals to be adopted and relocated.

Inspired by the content underscored in our textbook, Good Charts, as well as recommendations made during our course lectures, my story structure will split into: build up, conflict, and call to action.

**Build Up:** Highlight the shelter intake, transfer, and euthanasia rates over the last few years. 
<br>
**Conflict:** Shelters are often overwhelmed with intakes. Animals are euthanized for many preventable reasons. 
<br>
**Call To Action:** Illustrate that there has been a direct correlation with increase in adoption and decrease in euthanisation. Futher illustrate that animals in certain organizations' shelters are euthanized for various reasons and provide methods of contributing to these animals' adoptability and supporting these organizations. 

## Sketches

I decided to sketch a rough flow of my entire presentation. I will begin with stark statistics about shelters and adoption. In my final presentation, I hope to also provide general information about pets in American households. I will then display the direct correlation with adoption and decrease in euthanasia to appeal to the emotions of the audience. Diving into more detail, I want to highlight that agencies, over time, have taken great control over many of the sheltering issues that have existed in the past. Thus, euthanasia reasons stem from something greater and other than overpopulation. To further prevent euthanasia we must donate to these agencies as well as campaigns that aid in resolving these other issues. 
<br>
<br>
<img src="./images/IMG_6155.jpg" width = "500" height="587">

## The Data
The [Shelter Animal Outcomes data from the Austin Animal Center](https://www.kaggle.com/c/shelter-animal-outcomes/data) has attributes such as animal breed, intake reason, outcome, and outcome reason from 2013 - 2016; these attributes are valuable in drawing insights on shelter animal trends over time.
The [ASPCA Shelter Intake Data](https://www.aspca.org/animal-homelessness/shelter-intake-and-surrender/pet-statistics) provides nationwide information on the status quo of U.S. animal shelters as provided by the Animal Humane Society. This dataset will not only complement the Austin Animal Center data, but also describe the conflict at hand by explaining why animals may be rehomed. 
Lastly, the [NYT Why Euthanasia Rates Have Plummeted](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/03/upshot/why-euthanasia-rates-at-animal-shelters-have-plummeted.html) article directly supports the hypothesis that euthanasia and adoption rates are negatively correlated. 

## Method & Medium 
I intend to use Flourish and Shorthand as my visualization and presentation platforms for this project. 

I will use Flourish because it has proved to be my favorite among the platforms we've overviewed this semester. It's versatility is not qualified by the ease of use and simplicity in edited and personalization visualizations. The ability to dynamically add data and view changes instantaneously is particularly of interest to me because much of the data I've gathered has to be manually input and comes from various sources. 

I will used Shorthand to compile my story together. The interactivity and transitions present on Shorthand will surely garner attention as I present my findings. Using features such as "Scrollmation," "Reveal," and "Custom HTML," I will be able to highlight certain aspects of my story and visualizations while maintaining engagement of my audience. Creating very different but interactive sections that come together will aid in the flow of my story and allow me to conclude with my call to action. 

### Return To Home
[MAIN](/README.md)

Commit message:

Part II template + table formatting attempt

final_project_TabassumKazi.md, after:

# Part I

## Project Outline
**High-level Summary:** My final presentation will highlight the status of animal shelters, euthanasia statistics, and the importance of animal adoption from shelters. I hope to appeal to people, not only to adopt from animal shelters, but also to consider donating to causes that allow shelters to run and allow animals to be adopted and relocated.

Inspired by the content underscored in our textbook, Good Charts, as well as recommendations made during our course lectures, my story structure will split into: build up, conflict, and call to action.

**Build Up:** Highlight the shelter intake, transfer, and euthanasia rates over the last few years. 
<br>
**Conflict:** Shelters are often overwhelmed with intakes. Animals are euthanized for many preventable reasons. 
<br>
**Call To Action:** Illustrate that there has been a direct correlation with increase in adoption and decrease in euthanisation. Futher illustrate that animals in certain organizations' shelters are euthanized for various reasons and provide methods of contributing to these animals' adoptability and supporting these organizations. 

## Sketches

I decided to sketch a rough flow of my entire presentation. I will begin with stark statistics about shelters and adoption. In my final presentation, I hope to also provide general information about pets in American households. I will then display the direct correlation with adoption and decrease in euthanasia to appeal to the emotions of the audience. Diving into more detail, I want to highlight that agencies, over time, have taken great control over many of the sheltering issues that have existed in the past. Thus, euthanasia reasons stem from something greater and other than overpopulation. To further prevent euthanasia we must donate to these agencies as well as campaigns that aid in resolving these other issues. 
<br>
<br>
<img src="./images/IMG_6155.jpg" width = "500" height="587">

## The Data
The [Shelter Animal Outcomes data from the Austin Animal Center](https://www.kaggle.com/c/shelter-animal-outcomes/data) has attributes such as animal breed, intake reason, outcome, and outcome reason from 2013 - 2016; these attributes are valuable in drawing insights on shelter animal trends over time.
The [ASPCA Shelter Intake Data](https://www.aspca.org/animal-homelessness/shelter-intake-and-surrender/pet-statistics) provides nationwide information on the status quo of U.S. animal shelters as provided by the Animal Humane Society. This dataset will not only complement the Austin Animal Center data, but also describe the conflict at hand by explaining why animals may be rehomed. 
Lastly, the [NYT Why Euthanasia Rates Have Plummeted](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/03/upshot/why-euthanasia-rates-at-animal-shelters-have-plummeted.html) article directly supports the hypothesis that euthanasia and adoption rates are negatively correlated. 

## Method & Medium 
I intend to use Flourish and Shorthand as my visualization and presentation platforms for this project. 

I will use Flourish because it has proved to be my favorite among the platforms we've overviewed this semester. It's versatility is not qualified by the ease of use and simplicity in edited and personalization visualizations. The ability to dynamically add data and view changes instantaneously is particularly of interest to me because much of the data I've gathered has to be manually input and comes from various sources. 

I will used Shorthand to compile my story together. The interactivity and transitions present on Shorthand will surely garner attention as I present my findings. Using features such as "Scrollmation," "Reveal," and "Custom HTML," I will be able to highlight certain aspects of my story and visualizations while maintaining engagement of my audience. Creating very different but interactive sections that come together will aid in the flow of my story and allow me to conclude with my call to action. 

# Part II 
## Wireframe/Storyboarding Using Shorthand 

## User Research/Interviews 
**Target Audience:**
This cause can appeal to various groups - as indicated by those I targeted to interview. I hope to appeal to those considering to adopt, those who maybe interested in just aiding the cause, and inspiring those who were unaware of the issue and did not care for animals. 
<br>
**Who To Interview:**
I think the best interview subjects need to be random as any good representive survey should. Thus, I hope to have 3 individuals with varying perspectives on domestic animals. I will interview:
A. Someone who already has a pet from a shelter to guage whether my persuasion and visuals conveys what she is similarly passionate about - or whether I am lacking in something important to the cause. 
B. Someone who is ambivalent towards pets and animals in general. The cause may be saddening, but they wouldn't necessarily raise an animal. Thus, I can guage whether they are motivated to donate or learn more about the cause.
C. Someone completely uninterested in raising an animal; dislikes pets. 
**Interview Script:**
Hi, thank you for agreeing to take part in this interview. I hope to gather general feedback to improve the scope of my project. I want you to be critical and honest, there are no wrong answers! 
Questions:
1. What was your take away from this presentation?
2. Were you able to understand the purpose of the visualizations? 
3. Was anything confusing? Would you change any of the dialogue or visualizations? 
Thank you again for taking part in this!
<br>
**Findings:**
| Questions | Feedback |
|-----------|----------|
|What was your take away from this presentation?| Andwersogkdsokgpdokgspdkgpsdkfgpodkgpskdpgkdpgkdpokgpsdkgpodskgpskgposkgpfdkpgdskgpskpgdkodskfspdfkpsdkfpsakfspofkspofkpdok oisfjsiofjsiofjdsiofjsoijfiosafjoasifjoasijfoipasdjfoi jspoijdsopifjsoipfjasoipfjaosipfjasiodfjiopasdjfasoifjosipafjaopifjaoisjfopiasjfopsjfoi|
|Were you able to understand the purpose of the visualizations? | test |
|Was anything confusing? Would you change any of the dialogue or visualizations? | test |
<br>
**Future Changes:**
### Return To Home
[MAIN](/README.md)
